Previously on "The Last Ship"...
You all have saved the world
three times now.
How on earth do you do it?
I can't promise
the fight won't be hard,
But I can say we will prevail.
- Gustavo's chief war strategist...
- Find out what he knows.
You know his next moves.
Help me stop him.
If I help you,
will that save my nation?
If you don't, will your nation
still be worth saving?
Dr. Montano just gave us the key.
We take Cuba...
We can win this war.
Disparen!
Papá...
Simon.
Disparen!
The C-130 Liberty One
will depart Naval Air Station
Key West at 2200 hours.
Lima team,
partnered Navy/Marine Corps,
will air-drop 13 miles
off the Cuban coast,
landing at Guines, which...
According to intel
Admiral Chandler
obtained from Dr. Montano...
Is the home to
a hidden rebel stronghold.
What kind of numbers
can we expect?
The rebel force is somewhere
between 500 and 5,000.
Our team's
dropping in with a 2-ton gift
of small arms and light weapons.
Whatever their size,
I promise you,
that militia
will be well-outfitted.
Now, once Lima team
makes contact
with El Gallo and his men...
I'm sorry, Admiral.
How confident are you
in this El Gallo?
This unknown leader of Free Cuba?
You think he's more inclined
to join our cause
than, say, the Chinese or the
Indians or the Brits right now?
How confident are you
that when our team lands,
they find themselves met
by friendly interests
and not, say, indifference
or hostility... 1 to 10?
One being they slit our throats
soon as we hit the beach. Well...
Six, sir.
General, you signed off on this?
I did, sir.
Though, to be frank,
I have concerns.
General's worried the intel
I got from Dr. Montano
may not be trustworthy.
I've lost a lot of Marines
already, Mr. President.
Trust in anything
coming out of Gustavo's camp
is in short supply.
But you trust it, Admiral.
I was with the man.
He lost faith in Gustavo
and gave his life
to stop the bloodshed.
I've had the country
running at full tilt
for the last three months
to put us in a position
to take back Mexico,
and now you wanna air-drop
a dozen of our finest
into the lion's den
before we can back 'em up?
Gustavo's preoccupied
with shoring up support
from his base.
Now is the best time for us
to make our move on Cuba.
And we need it, sir...
Not just as a buffer
against another major attack,
but as a staging area to launch
our own invasion south.
Please continue, Admiral.
Thank you, sir.
Synced & corrected by MaxPayne
== https://subscene.com ==
Señor Barros.
Gustavo.
Tell me, what's a win?
Jumping to the end already?
Doesn't feel like a jump to me.
In your speeches, you promised
your people a quick victory.
But, from what I've seen,
you've been stuck in place
for some time now.
I'm curious
if your thinking has changed
or if you regret starting
a war with the United States.
We didn't start this war.
You sank a U.S. fleet
in Mayport
on the very day
that your loyalists
murdered the duly-elected
leader of Panama.
That sounds textbook.
Mayport wasn't an attack,
nor was it the beginning.
You're young, but smart enough
to know the U.S.'s history
of murder and political
insurrection in Latin America.
Guatemala '54, Cuba '61,
D.R. '65, Chile '73,
Nicaragua '82, Grenada '83.
This war
is a battle for the survival
of the people of Gran Colombia.
So, is this your justification
for the forced conscription,
the purges, the death squads?
Where do you get this information from?
Several accounts
from defectors...
Defectors from what?
Our borders are not closed.
People are free
to come and go as they wish.
Their accounts
are remarkably consistent.
This isn't a war
of public opinion.
This is about taking
a fresh look at the world...
Post-virus, post-famine.
It's about adjusting
the balance.
United States have been
bullies for too long.
This movement is a rebirth.
Take your camera
and your notepad
and go to the countryside.
Go to the cities
of Central and South America
and see the pride
in people's faces.
Freedom from tyranny
is what they demanded.
And it's what I'm giving them.
And I'm inviting the people
of all of the Americas to join.
Ensign Swain.
Any news?
No, sir.
No surprise there.
She's probably hiding
in a hole somewhere,
hoping we give up looking.
No chance of that, sir.
I've been monitoring
cell activity for Colombia
and the United States
for months.
If Kelsi's still in contact
with anyone down south,
we'll know it.
Well, good.
Till then, I have
another job for you.
Sir, I... Radio jammers
aboard the James
were fried in the attack.
I need you to reprogram
her electric grid.
I want to make sure those
Cuban artillery batteries
don't use our Herc
as target practice.
Where do you need me?
$1.25.
Um...
I only got $1.15.
Are you kidding?
No. Beat it.
Hey! Stop!
Get back here!
Zoey?
It's getting late, sweetie.
Time to come in.
But, Mom!
Aunt Kelsi's here.
Just a few more pushes?
Yeah, Mom.
Just a few more?
Yeah, I heard rumors
that you were in Carta-geena?
Mm, Cartagena.
Yeah, right.
You didn't leave the country?
You just disappeared.
If you wanna ask, ask.
Just stop, please.
Oh, go ahead.
Ask me.
I don't need to ask.
'Cause you know
everything about me, right?
I know what kind of person
you are.
Oh, what kind of a pers...
The kind who runs off
with any loser
promising adventure.
The kind who makes a mess
and leaves the rest of us
to clean it up.
The kind
who hasn't even bothered
to come see her own daughter.
Mom?
Can you read me
"The Paper Bag Princess"?
Uh...
did you brush your teeth?
Okay, I'll be in in a sec.
Night, Aunt Kelsi.
Night.
Sleep tight.
Don't let the bedbugs bite.
Remember when you used to
read that to me?
You need to turn yourself in.
I know.
No, you don't know.
Otherwise, you wouldn't be here.
Putting me in danger.
Putting Zoey in danger.
No one's in danger.
It's not like I'm...
A what?
A murderer?
A terrorist?
Go ahead.
Tell me you're not.
Look me in the eye
and tell me the cops,
the Navy, and the goddamn FBI
tore my house apart
for three weeks
because you didn't kill
that woman.
I don't know where else to go.
Police station would be a start.
And say what?
The truth.
The truth?
What's the truth, Elli?
That I'm an idiot?
That I thought I was helping?
That it turns out I am just
a piece of Florida white trash
thinking I could solve
the world's problems?
I know what I did.
And I know what's coming for me.
God knows I deserve it.
You're not trash,
and you're not a monster.
And, I mean, at this point,
according to
the U.S. government,
you're basically the most
important human being
on the planet, right?
Just tell them something.
Cut a deal.
It won't be so bad.
Yeah.
We're gonna get you a good deal.
And we're gonna make it
through this.
You, me, and Zoey.
On course, 2-1-0,
making 16 knots.
Estimated time of arrival
based on current speed...
3 hours and 45 minutes.
Anything pop up
in the shakedown?
Well, some trouble out
of two gen,
but we'll have it online
in the hour.
And we haven't sprung any leaks,
so that's a good thing.
Roger that.
CIC, Bridge.
Report your status.
Sub-surface clear.
All systems go.
Surface clear.
Bridge, T.A.O.
Testing is complete.
All combat systems
are up and ready to go.
It's good to be back, ma'am.
Glad to hear it.
After three months of dry dock,
I think we set a record.
Captain, Radio.
All circuits up.
HF Channel
is encrypted and secure.
Who else do we have on the line?
Patching through Command now.
Nathan James,
we hear you loud and clear.
Much as I enjoyed Moby Dick,
it's a pleasure
to hear your voice.
Admiral Chandler,
how's the Herc?
Weapons supply is currently
being loaded and on schedule.
Hitting Cuban airspace
in 3 hours.
Sound about right,
Captain Green?
We'll be waiting.
Have a safe flight, Admiral.
Go ahead.
Watch it, Marine.
Sorry, Chief.
My bad.
Excuse the fellas, Admiral.
The Marines have been grounded
since the Mayport attack.
They're angry
and ready to hook and jab.
They'll get their chance.
Thank you, sir,
for everything you've done.
All loaded up.
When's the last time you jumped?
On purpose?
I don't know.
Six or seven years.
Like falling off a bike.
Sure you don't want
to join in the fun, Professor?
Someone's gotta stay on
the plane and do the hard work.
Gunny, check the palletized
gear and equipment.
Lima team, load up.
Let's go get some.
Oo-rah.
Boo-yah!
Boo-yah.
Hector.
Okay.
Octavio.
Hector...
You know, I always wondered
why Navy corpsman
deploy with the Marines.
'Cause the Marines like to fight, sir.
I-I mean, I...
I'm... I'm not saying
that y'all don't, sir.
I was just, um...
You know, I meant that, um...
I was saying that we...
Take it easy, corpsman.
Save your energy.
Yes, sir.
So, you guys work out?
C'mon. Thought you bastards
were supposed to be fun.
We've been waiting like 50 years
to invade this shit-box
island, am I right?
My mother's Cuban.
Command, this is Liberty One.
We're leaving American airspace
and proceeding on schedule.
Over.
Copy that, Liberty One.
Nathan James
is in range to jam the radar
in the Cuban
artillery batteries.
Stand by.
HF feed is holding up.
Wish we had better eyes
on the battlefield.
Yes, sir.
Without satellites,
this will have to do.
Ensign, we ready?
All set, Admiral.
Okay.
Liberty One, Command.
You are clear to proceed.
Navy Spear,
sending jam package now.
Commence jamming sequence
on your end.
Aye.
Jamming sequence initiated.
Liberty One, Navy Spear.
Cuba's blind,
and they don't know it.
Copy that, Navy Spear.
Ground winds
out of the northwest...
1-5 knots.
Deploy chutes 9,000.
Jump Team, Flight Lead.
2-minute warning.
Lima team, stand by.
2 minutes, 2 minutes.
2 minutes.
Good luck.
Oo-rah.
All right, go!
Go!
All teams, Command.
Jamming's holding.
You have another 40 seconds.
Navy Spear, roger that.
We're good. Let's go.
Weapons supply away.
Uplink confirmed.
Nav system engaged.
Aye, sir.
I have control of the cache.
Deploying the chute now.
Unknown air track.
Inbound, Liberty One.
What the hell
is going on over there?
Flight Lead, come in.
Come in.
Liberty One, Liberty One,
this is Command.
We have a missile detonation.
Target's trajectory leading
back to the north side of Cuba.
Liberty One is hit
and going down.
Flight Lead, what's your status?
Flight Lead, do you copy?!
What the hell?!
Did everyone egress?
No.
No, no.
Lima, Command.
What is your status?
Our status is goddamn livid, Admiral.
Why weren't we jamming
those artillery batteries?
We're gonna get you
some answers.
This is Dufine.
I wanna speak to Captain Utt.
Command, Utt.
Lima team has landed.
No sign of Bowen, Lin, Murphy,
Weeks, Santora, or Hird.
Mostly likely
they were K.I.A.
Looks like Liberty One
was shot out of the sky.
Pilots were on course.
Jamming was set.
We had no early warning.
Admiral Chandler
was also on board, ma'am.
Command, Navy Spear.
Commencing
search and rescue now.
Helm, all ahead, 2/3.
Gear is off target.
No confirm on beacon.
It must be out of range.
Mother, can we get a fix
on that weapons supply?
We were tracking it using
a radar relay from the plane.
Last position,
supply was off-course,
headed west on a path toward
the north shore of Havana.
That's Gustavo country.
The rebel camp is 3 miles
in the other direction.
Why don't we go there first?
No. We secure the gear.
Then we find the rebels.
You wanna walk into Havana
with half our team
and no firepower?
We can't risk letting
those weapons
fall into the wrong hands.
I agree.
We don't have a choice.
They know we're here,
so we have to move fast.
That beacon has a 2-mile range.
If we can get in the area,
I know we can find it.
Mission hasn't changed.
Roger that.
Command, Utt.
We are proceeding feet dry
in search of weapons supply.
Update when we arrive.
Copy all.
Ma'am, based on its speed
and trajectory,
the plane could have
gone down anywhere here.
If we're looking for a debris
field, it could be miles long.
Let's get that bird in the air.
Aye, ma'am.
I'm going to CIC.
The bridge is yours.
Roger.
Aah!
This entire borough's
a hotbed for Cuban military.
Just that kinda day.
Gear's close.
Whole thing could've
been picked over by now.
Barco, take Green and see
if you can get eyes on.
Aye, sir.
Let's go.
Let's do it.
Hey, ma'am.
Ma'am, your neck is bleeding.
It's... It's nothing.
I didn't even feel it. No.
You probably just got nicked
by the shrapnel from the blast.
Here, just apply pressure.
Okay?
Aah!
Aaaahhh!
Package is across
the street behind the bar.
Can't get eyes on it yet,
but it's there.
Could be on the rooftop.
Half the city's awake,
and the other half
will be up soon.
Let's move.
Debris field scattered.
No sign of life.
Hell.
Anyone else hearing that?
Mother, I'm picking up
something strong here.
Copy that, Brawler.
We see it.
Looks like it's headed
to the port at Matanzas.
Navy Spear, what do you see?
We don't have an I.D. yet, sir,
but it's huge.
It's got the same signature
as the ship we fought
at the Yucatán Strait.
You said you hit
that battleship pretty hard.
Yeah.
No worse than
she hit Nathan James.
She's a monster.
The radar jamming was focused
on the artillery batteries.
If that ship
was patrolling the waters
over the horizon
from the Nathan James,
it would have had
a clear look at Liberty One.
This wasn't on you, Ensign.
Bridge, Captain.
Set course to 2-4-5.
Course 2-4-5, aye.
This time, we sink her.
Ready all VLS.
Aye, ma'am.
Vamos.
Hector...
Hmm?
Looks like we're in
over our heads.
Have to take it piece by piece.
Toone, cut her down.
Yes, sir.
The rest of us, underneath.
El Gallo.
Fuentes.
Admiral.
Leader of the Cuban rebels.
We have a lot to discuss.
Closing in on the target, ma'am.
1,500 yards.
We should see them
when we get around the bend.
We lost the signature.
It's okay.
She's trapped in the bay now.
OOD, slow to 3 knots.
Stand by to maneuver.
Aye, ma'am.
Helm, all ahead 1/3 for 3 knots.
Helm, aye.
Prepare to fire
as soon as we get eyes
on that ship.
Aye.
Where the hell'd it go?
There's no other way
out of this harbor.
We got the weight, Toone.
Cut it.
Yep.
Bring it up.
Careful.
Set it down.
Hey!
Oh!
Aye.
Americanos! Americanos!
Holy shit!
I need some help here!
Mother, Lima.
We're trapped in the courtyard,
and contact is imminent.
Request emergency evac
at my location. Over.
Lima, Navy Spear.
Helo is 20 mikes
from your posit. Over.
Push!
They're gonna ram it!
Kandie, set a claymore
on that door.
Hold it. Push.
Push!
We're set.
Lima team, on my command,
drop back.
All guns on the door.
When they breach, give 'em hell.
Drop back, drop back!
I didn't jump out of a plane
to get killed by friendly fire.
You guys
wanna lower your weapons?
You're clear.
Package secure?
The street's contained,
but we need to leave... now.
Welcome to Cuba.
Vámonos.
Smokes, thermites, and frags.
You got it all.
Systems check.
Got that?
You know, for a Navy man,
you're not bad with a rifle.
Yeah, well, for a Marine,
you're not bad as a doorstop.
Get a room.
Then we'll have to take the
airfield, the capital building,
the presidential palace,
and then the radio station.
Sounds like you got
everything under control.
It's been
a difficult few months,
but the worst is still ahead.
Thank you
for living up to your end,
even though you had
no reason to trust me.
Disparen.
Disparen!
Viva Tavo!
Coming in from the west side,
as well as from the center.
That's great.
Hey, Kelsi?